## Functions

In the world of Functional Programming, "function" has a precise mathematical definition and implies a strict set of rules to abide by.

### Function declaration

**Function declaration** appears as a statement by itself, not as an expression in another statement.

```
function awesomeFunction(coolThings) {
    // ..
    return amazingStuff;
}
```

The association between the identifier `awesomeFunction` and the function body happens during the compile phase of the code before that code is executed.

### Function expression

In contrast to a function declaration statement, a **function expression** can be defined and assigned like this:

```
var awesomeFunction = .. (or)
let awesomeFunction = .. (or)
const awesomeFunction = function(coolThings) {
    // ..
    return amazingStuff;
};
```

This function is an expression that is assigned to the variable `awesomeFunction`.

Different from the function declaration, a function expression is not associated with its identifier until that statement during runtime.

It's extremely important to note that in JS, functions are values that can be assigned (as shown in above snippet) and passed around.

### Functions with parameter

JS functions can receive parameter input:

```
function greeting(myName) {
    console.log(`Hello, ${ myName }!`);
}

greeting("Kyle");   // Hello, Kyle!
```

`myName` is called a parameter, which acts as a local variable inside the function.

### Functions with return

Functions also can return values using the `return` keyword:

```
function greeting(myName) {
    return `Hello, ${ myName }!`;
}

var msg = greeting("Kyle");

console.log(msg);   // Hello, Kyle!
```

You can only `return` a single value, but if you have more values to return, you can wrap them up into a single object/array.

### Functions as property of Object

Since functions are values, they can be assigned as properties on objects:

```
const whatToSay = {
    greeting() {
        console.log("Hello!");
    },
    question: function() {
        console.log("What's your name?");
    },
    answer:()=> {
        console.log("My name is Kyle.");
    }
};

whatToSay.greeting();
// Hello!
```

In this snippet, references to three functions (`greeting()`, `question()`, and `answer()`) are included in the object held by `whatToSay`. Each function can be called by accessing the property to retrieve the function reference value.
