## Comparisons

### Strict equality operator

The most common comparison in JS programs asks the question, "Is this X value _the same as_ that Y value?" What exactly does "the same as" really mean to JS, though?

"Triple-equals" `===` operator, also described as the "strict equality" operator, is often described is, "checking both the value and the type".  
Consider some examples:

```
3 === 3.0; // true
"yes" === "yes"; // true
null === null; // true
false === false; // true
42 === "42"; // false
"hello" === "Hello"; // false
true === 1; // false
0 === null; // false
"" === null; // false
null === undefined; // false
```

NOTE:
In several of the examples we've looked at so far, like `42 === "42"`, the _type_ of both values (number, string, etc.) does seem to be the distinguishing factor. There's more to it than that, though.

**All** value comparisons in JS consider the type of the values being compared, not _just_ the `===` operator. Specifically, `===` disallows any sort of type conversion (aka, "coercion") in its comparison, where other JS comparisons _do_ allow coercion.

### Strict equality - Edge case scenario

But the `===` operator does have some nuance to it. The `===` operator is designed to _lie_ in two cases of special values: `NaN` and `-0`. Consider:

```
NaN === NaN; // false
0 === -0; // true
```

In the case of `NaN`, the `===` operator _lies_ and says that an occurrence of `NaN` is not equal to another `NaN`. In the case of `-0` (yes, this is a real, distinct value you can use intentionally in your programs!), the `===` operator _lies_ and says it's equal to the regular `0` value.

### Overcoming the edge case

Since the _lying_ about such comparisons can be bothersome, it's best to avoid using `===` for them.

- For `NaN` comparisons, use the `Number.isNaN(..)` utility.
- For `-0` comparison, use the `Object.is(..)` utility.

`Object.is(..)` can also be used for non-_lying_ `NaN` checks, if you prefer.

### Why object values cannot be compared with `===` ?

The story gets even more complicated when we consider comparisons of object values (non-primitives).
Consider:

```
[ 1, 2, 3 ] === [ 1, 2, 3 ]; // false
{ a: 42 } === { a: 42 } // false
(x => x * 2) === (x => x * 2) // false
```

This is because, in JS, all object values are held by reference, assigned, and passed by reference copy.

## Coercive Comparisons

Coercion means a value of one type being converted to its respective representation in another type (to whatever extent possible).

The `==` operator performs an equality comparison similarly to how the `===` performs it. In fact, both operators consider the type of the values being compared. And if the comparison is between the same value type, both `==` and `===` **do exactly the same thing, no difference whatsoever.**

If the value types being compared are different, the `==` differs from `===` in that it allows coercion before the comparison. In other words, they both want to compare values of like types, but `==` allows type conversions _first_, and once the types have been converted to be the same on both sides, then `==` does the same thing as `===`. Instead of "loose equality," the `==` operator should be described as "coercive equality."

Consider:

```
42 == "42"; // true
1 == true; // true
```

In both comparisons, the value types are different, so the `==` causes the non-number values (`"42"` and `true`) to be converted to numbers (`42` and `1`, respectively) before the comparisons are made.

### Coercive Comparisons for relational comparison operators

Just like `==`, relational comparison operators like `<`, `>` (and even `<=` and `>=`), will perform as if they're "strict" if the types being relationally compared already match, but they'll allow coercion first (generally, to numbers) if the types differ.

Consider:

```
var arr = [ "1", "10", "100", "1000" ];
for (let i = 0; i < arr.length && arr[i] < 500; i++) {
// will run 3 times
}
```

- The `i < arr.length` comparison is "safe" from coercion because `i` and `arr.length` are always numbers.
- The `arr[i] < 500` invokes coercion, though, because the `arr[i]` values are all strings. Those comparisons thus become `1 < 500`, `10 < 500`, `100 < 500`, and `1000 < 500`. Since that fourth one is false, the loop stops after its third iteration.

These relational operators typically use numeric comparisons, except in the case where **both** values being compared are already strings; in this case, they use alphabetical comparison of the strings:

```
var x = "10";
var y = "9";
x < y; // true, watch out!
```

Here since the alphabetical comparison of the strings occurs,"10" is compared with "9". So "1" the first letter of `x` is compared with "9" and because of this we are getting it as true.
